Nikitasingh (#16)
agrbhuvnesh/AzSHCI-Automation: examples-dot-net/README.md

    - Better error-handling.
    - Support uniform telemetry across all languages.

## Getting started

### Install the package

Install the Azure Stack HCI management library for .NET with [NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/):

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Azure.ResourceManager.Hci
```

### Prerequisites

* You must have an [Microsoft Azure subscription](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/dotnet/).

### Authenticate the Client

To create an authenticated client and start interacting with Microsoft Azure resources, see the [quickstart guide here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/dev/mgmt_quickstart.md).

## Key concepts

Key concepts of the Microsoft Azure SDK for .NET can be found [here](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html).

## Documentation

Documentation is available to help you learn how to use this package:

- [Quickstart](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/dev/mgmt_quickstart.md).
- [API References](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/?view=azure-dotnet).
- [Authentication](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity/README.md).

## Examples

> ### Hci Cluster Collection

Reviewer: Instead of this. 
Have something like "HCI Cluster Management" and add all operations below it. 
With this, you don't need to get the token and ask to change the resource group and subscription parameters repetitively.

> #### Get list of all clusters in a given resource group()

Reviewer: Please do the alignment

1. Get the Azure token

```C# Snippet: 
            TokenCredential cred = new DefaultAzureCredential();
            ArmClient client = new ArmClient(cred);
```
2. Update the parameters given below
```C# Snippet:
            string subscription = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"; # Replace with your subscription ID
            string resourceGroupName = "hcicluster-rg"; # Replace with your resource group name
```

> 3. Get the collection of the Hci Cluster Resource

Reviewer: add console log to print some cluster details

> 3. Get the collection of the Hci Cluster Resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Get all the HCI clusters in a resource group
```

```C# Snippet:
            HciClusterCollection collection = resourceGroupResource.GetHciClusters();
```

> 4. Get Resource group resource

Reviewer: We don't need this

Author: meaning the entire get list of all resource group function is not needed?

```C# Snippet: 
            ResourceIdentifier resourceGroupResourceId = ResourceGroupResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName);
            ResourceGroupResource resourceGroupResource = client.GetResourceGroupResource(resourceGroupResourceId);
```
5. Invoke the operation and iterate over the data

```C# Snippet: 
            await foreach (HciClusterResource item in collection.GetAllAsync())
            {
                // the variable item is a resource, you could call other operations on this instance as well
                // but just for demo, we get its data from this resource instance
                HciClusterData resourceData = item.Data;
                // for demo we just print out the id

>                 Console.WriteLine($"Succeeded on id: {resourceData.Id}");

Reviewer: change the console log

            }

```

> 6. For confirmation we will print Succeeded.

Reviewer: not needed

```C# Snippet: 
        Console.WriteLine($"Succeeded");
```

> #### Get Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Get a single HCI cluster
```

1. Get the Azure token

```C# Snippet: 
            TokenCredential cred = new DefaultAzureCredential();
            ArmClient client = new ArmClient(cred);
```
2. Update the parameters given below
```C# Snippet:
            string subscription = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"; # Replace with your subscription ID
            string resourceGroupName = "hcicluster-rg"; # Replace with your resource group name
```

> 3. Get the collection of the Hci Cluster Resource

Reviewer: Is there a way to get the cluster without getting the whole collection?

```C# Snippet:
            HciClusterCollection collection = resourceGroupResource.GetHciClusters();
```

4. Invoke the operation to get the cluster

```C# Snippet: 
            string clusterName = "myCluster";
            HciClusterResource result = await collection.GetAsync(clusterName);

```

5. For confirmation we will print the id.

```C# Snippet: 

>             HciClusterData resourceData = result.Data;

Reviewer: change console log

Author: What will be a suitable console log?

            string resourceGroupName = "hcicluster-rg"; # Replace with your resource group name
            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; # Replace with your cluster name
```

3. Get Hci Cluster Resource and Delete it

```C# Snippet: 
            ResourceIdentifier hciClusterResourceId = HciClusterResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName);
            HciClusterResource hciCluster = client.GetHciClusterResource(hciClusterResourceId);
```

4. Invoke the Operation

```C# Snippet: 
            SoftwareAssuranceChangeContent content = new SoftwareAssuranceChangeContent()
            {
                SoftwareAssuranceIntent = SoftwareAssuranceIntent.Enable,
            };
            ArmOperation<HciClusterResource> lro =  hciCluster.ExtendSoftwareAssuranceBenefitAsync(WaitUntil.Completed, content).Result;
            HciClusterResource result = lro.Value;
```

5. For confirmation we will print the id from result

```C# Snippet: 
        ArcExtensionData resourceData = result.Data;
        Console.WriteLine($"Succeeded on id: {resourceData.Id}");
```

> ### Arc Extension Resource

Reviewer: what about creating arc extension?

            ArmClient client = new ArmClient(cred);
```
2. Update the parameters given below

```C# Snippet:
            string subscription = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"; # Replace with your subscription ID
            string resourceGroupName = "hcicluster-rg"; # Replace with your resource group name
            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; # Replace with your cluster name
            string arcSettingName = "HCIArcSettingName"; # Replace with your Arc Setting Name
```
3. Get Arc Extension Resource

```C# Snippet: 
            ResourceIdentifier arcSettingResourceId = ArcSettingResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, arcSettingName);
            ArcSettingResource arcSetting = client.GetArcSettingResource(arcSettingResourceId);
            // the variable result is a resource, you could call other operations on this instance as well
             ArcExtensionResource result = arcExtension.GetAsync().Result;

```

4. For confirmation we will print the id retrieved from result
```C# Snippet: 
        ArcExtensionData resourceData = result.Data;
        Console.WriteLine($"Succeeded on id: {resourceData.Id}");
```

> #### Update Arc Setting Resource

Reviewer: Instead of adding this separately. 
Add it as part of installing WAC. For WAC, we need to enable the connectivity first

1. Get the Azure token

```C# Snippet: 
            TokenCredential cred = new DefaultAzureCredential();
            ArmClient client = new ArmClient(cred);
```
2. Update the parameters given below

```C# Snippet:
            string subscription = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"; # Replace with your subscription ID
            string resourceGroupName = "hcicluster-rg"; # Replace with your resource group name
            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; # Replace with your cluster name
            string arcSettingName = "HCIArcSettingName"; # Replace with your Arc Setting Name
```
3. Get the Arc Extension Resource

```C# Snippet: 
            ResourceIdentifier arcExtensionResourceId = ArcExtensionResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, arcSettingName, extensionName);
            ArcExtensionResource arcExtension = client.GetArcExtensionResource(arcExtensionResourceId);
```

4. Invoke delete operation

```C# Snippet: 
            
            arcExtension.DeleteAsync(WaitUntil.Completed);
```

5. For confirmation we can print the text "Succeeded"

```C# Snippet: 
        Console.WriteLine($"Succeeded");
```

> #### Generate Password

Reviewer: Not needed, remove

## Key concepts

Key concepts of the Microsoft Azure SDK for .NET can be found [here](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html).

## Documentation

Documentation is available to help you learn how to use this package:

- [Quickstart](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/dev/mgmt_quickstart.md).
- [API References](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/?view=azure-dotnet).
- [Authentication](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity/README.md).

## Examples
#### Prerequisites

1. Get the Azure token

```csharp 
            TokenCredential cred = new DefaultAzureCredential();
            ArmClient client = new ArmClient(cred);
```
2. Update the parameters given below
```csharp 
            string subscription = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"; // Replace with your subscription ID
            string resourceGroupName = "hcicluster-rg"; // Replace with your resource group name
```

### Extension Management  

##### Prerequisites

1. Update the parameters given below
```csharp 
            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; // Replace with your cluster name
```

> #### Installing Extensions as part of enabling capabilities

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Enabling capabilities on the cluster by installing Arc Extensions
```

> ##### Install Azure Monitor Windows Agent Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Enable Insights as part of installing Azure Monitoring Agent Arc Extension
```

                TypeHandlerVersion = typeHandlerVersion,
                Settings = BinaryData.FromObjectAsJson(new Dictionary<string, object>()
                {
                    ["workspaceId"] = workspaceId
                }),
                ProtectedSettings = BinaryData.FromObjectAsJson(new Dictionary<string, object>()
                {
                    ["workspaceKey"] = workspaceKey
                }),
                EnableAutomaticUpgrade = enableAutomaticUpgrade,
            };
            
            ResourceIdentifier arcSettingResourceId = ArcSettingResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, "default");
            ArcSettingResource arcSetting = client.GetArcSettingResource(arcSettingResourceId);
            ArcExtensionCollection collection = arcSetting.GetArcExtensions();

            // Create the Extension

            ArcExtensionResource result = (await collection.CreateOrUpdateAsync(WaitUntil.Completed, extensionName, data)).Value;
```

##### Install Windows Admin Centre Extension

```csharp 

            // For installing Windows Admin Center, we need to enable network connectivity first

>            bool isEnabled = true;

Reviewer: redundant

            string typeHandlerVersion = "1.10";
            string portNumber = "6516"; //port to be associated with WAC
            bool enableAutoUpgrade = false; // change to true to enable automatic upgrade

            ArcExtensionData data = new ArcExtensionData()
            {
                Publisher = publisherName,
                ArcExtensionType = arcExtensionType,
                TypeHandlerVersion = typeHandlerVersion,
                Settings = BinaryData.FromObjectAsJson(new Dictionary<string, object>()
                {
                    ["port"] = portNumber
                }),
                EnableAutomaticUpgrade = enableAutoUpgrade,
            };
            ResourceIdentifier arcSettingResourceId = ArcSettingResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, "default");
            ArcSettingResource arcSetting = client.GetArcSettingResource(arcSettingResourceId);
            ArcExtensionCollection collection = arcSetting.GetArcExtensions();

            // Create the Extension

            ArcExtensionResource result = (await collection.CreateOrUpdateAsync(WaitUntil.Completed, extensionName, data)).Value;
```
 

> ##### Install Azure Site Recovery Extension

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Enable Site Recovery on the cluster by installing Azure Site Recovery Extension
```

```csharp 
            // Create the Payload

            string publisherName = "Microsoft.SiteRecovery.Dra";
            string arcExtensionType = "Windows";
            string extensionName = "AzureSiteRecovery";
            string env = "AzureCloud";
            string subscriptionId = "your SubscriptionId";
            string resourceGroup = "your ResourceGroup";
            string resourceName = "your site recovery vault name";
            string location = "your site recovery region";
            string siteId = "Id for your recovery site";

>             string siteName = "ypur recovery site name";

Reviewer: nit: your*

                {
                    {
                        "SubscriptionId": subscriptionId,
                        "Environment": env,
                        "ResourceGroup": resourceGroup,
                        "ResourceName": resourceName,
                        "Location": location,
                        "SiteId": siteId,
                        "SiteName": siteName,
                        "PolicyId": policyId,
                        "PrivateEndpointStateForSiteRecovery": pvtEndpointState
}
                }),
                EnableAutomaticUpgrade = isAutoUpgrade,
            };

            // Get Arc Extension Resource
            
            ResourceIdentifier arcSettingResourceId = ArcSettingResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, "default");
            ArcSettingResource arcSetting = client.GetArcSettingResource(arcSettingResourceId);
            ArcExtensionCollection collection = arcSetting.GetArcExtensions();

            // Create the Extension
           
           ArcExtensionResource result = (await collection.CreateOrUpdateAsync(WaitUntil.Completed, extensionName, data)).Value;
```

> #### Extension upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Upgrade Arc Extension 
```

```csharp  
            string extensionName = "AzureMonitorWindowsAgent"; // Replace with your extension name Some common examples are: AzureMonitorWindowsAgent, AzureSiteRecovery, AdminCenter
            string targetVersion = "1.0.18062.0"; //replace with extension version you want to install
            ResourceIdentifier arcExtensionResourceId = ArcExtensionResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, "default", extensionName);
            ArcExtensionResource arcExtension = client.GetArcExtensionResource(arcExtensionResourceId);
            // Invoke Upgrade operation
            ExtensionUpgradeContent content = new ExtensionUpgradeContent()
            {
                TargetVersion = targetVersion,
            };
            await arcExtension.UpgradeAsync(WaitUntil.Completed, content);

```

#### Deleting an ARC Extension

```csharp  

>             string extensionName = "AzureMonitorWindowsAgent"; // Replace with your extension name Some common examples are: AzureMonitorWindowsAgent, AzureSiteRecovery,                 AdminCenter

Reviewer: nit: remove extra space

>             ResourceIdentifier arcExtensionResourceId = ArcExtensionResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName, "default",                         extensionName);

Reviewer: nit: remove extra space

            ArcExtensionResource arcExtension = client.GetArcExtensionResource(arcExtensionResourceId);
            // Invoke the delete operation
            arcExtension.DeleteAsync(WaitUntil.Completed);
```

### HCI Cluster Management  

#### View HCI Clusters

> ##### Get Single HCI Cluster using Cluster Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### View Azure Stack HCI Cluster Properties 
```

```csharp  

            // Get the HCI Cluster
            
            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; // Replace with your cluster name,
            ResourceIdentifier hciClusterResourceId = HciClusterResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName);
            HciClusterResource hciCluster = client.GetHciClusterResource(hciClusterResourceId);

            // Invoke get operation

            HciClusterResource result = hciCluster.GetAsync().Result;
```

> #### Delete Single HCI cluster 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Delete Azure Stack HCI cluster 
```

```csharp  
            // Get the HCI Cluster

            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; // Replace with your cluster name,
            ResourceIdentifier hciClusterResourceId = HciClusterResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName);
            HciClusterResource hciCluster = client.GetHciClusterResource(hciClusterResourceId);

            // Invoke delete operation
            await hciCluster.DeleteAsync(WaitUntil.Completed);
```

> #### Delete all HCI Clusters in a Resource Group

Reviewer: You can remove this section

            ResourceGroupResource resourceGroupResource = client.GetResourceGroupResource(resourceGroupResourceId);

            // get the collection of this HciClusterResource
            HciClusterCollection collection = resourceGroupResource.GetHciClusters();

            // Calling the delete function for all Cluster Resources in the collection 
            await foreach (HciClusterResource item in collection.GetAllAsync())
            {
                // delete the item

                await item.DeleteAsync(WaitUntil.Completed);
            }
```

#### Update HCI Cluster Properties

```csharp  
            // Get the HCI Cluster

            string clusterName = "HCICluster"; // Replace with your cluster name,
            ResourceIdentifier hciClusterResourceId = HciClusterResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName);
            HciClusterResource hciCluster = client.GetHciClusterResource(hciClusterResourceId);

            // Invoke the Update Operation

            string tag1 = "tag1";
            string val1 = "value1";

>             string clusterName = "HCICluster"; // Replace with your cluster name,

Reviewer: this is repeated

Reviewer: line 302-305

            ResourceIdentifier hciClusterResourceId = HciClusterResource.CreateResourceIdentifier(subscriptionId, resourceGroupName, clusterName);
            HciClusterResource hciCluster = client.GetHciClusterResource(hciClusterResourceId);

            
            HciClusterPatch patch = new HciClusterPatch()
            {
                Tags =
                {
                [tag1] = val1
                },
     
                DesiredProperties = new HciClusterDesiredProperties()
                {
                    WindowsServerSubscription = WindowsServerSubscription.Enabled,// It can Enabled or Disabled

>                     DiagnosticLevel = HciClusterDiagnosticLevel.Basic,// It can be Basic or 

Reviewer: Basic or Enhanced

                },
            };
            HciClusterResource result = await hciCluster.UpdateAsync(patch);
```

#### Enable Azure Hybrid Benefits  

> 1. Invoke the Operation to Extend Azure Hybrid Benefit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Invoke the Operation to Enable Azure Hybrid Benefit
```
